README.md, before:

# 0vershred  [![C/C++ CI](https://github.com/su8/0vershred/actions/workflows/c-cpp.yml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/su8/0vershred/actions/workflows/c-cpp.yml)  [![flawfinder](https://github.com/su8/0vershred/actions/workflows/flawfinder.yml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/su8/0vershred/actions/workflows/flawfinder.yml)
The 0vershred command is used to securely delete files by overwriting their contents multiple times, making it difficult for even advanced recovery tools to retrieve the original data. This command is particularly useful for erasing sensitive information. (copied from the `shred` man page, all credits to this information belong to `shred`).

`0vershred` is faster than `shred` when shredding 1GB testing file:

```bash
truncate -s 1G test.bin
time shred --iterations=2 test.bin
######
real 1m53.908s
user 0m0.986s
sys 0m15.761s

truncate -s 1G test2.bin
time 0vershred test2.bin
#####
real 0m13.371s
user 0m0.437s
sys 0m12.761s
```

---

If on **Linux/\*BSD/Mac** compile with:

```bash
make -j8 # 8 cores/threads to use in parallel compile
sudo/doas make install

# to uninstall it
sudo/doas make uninstall
```

---

## Windows users

Tested with [Visual Studio Code Editor](https://code.visualstudio.com/download), but you need to install [MingW](https://github.com/niXman/mingw-builds-binaries/releases/download/12.2.0-rt_v10-rev0/x86_64-12.2.0-release-posix-seh-rt_v10-rev0.7z), once downloaded extract it to **C:\MingW**, then re-open [Visual Studio Code Editor](https://code.visualstudio.com/download), you might want to install C\C++ extensions if you plan to write C\C++ code with the editor. If you plan to contribute to this project go to **File->Preferences->Settings** and type to search for **cppStandard** and set it to c17 to both C++ and C.

I use **One Monokai** theme for the [VScode Editor](https://code.visualstudio.com/download)

In [Visual Studio Code Editor](https://code.visualstudio.com/download), go to **Terminal->Configure Tasks...->Create tasks.json from template** and copy and paste this into it:

```json
{
  "version": "2.0.0",
  "tasks": [
    {
        "type": "cppbuild",
        "label": "C/C++",
        "command": "C:\\MingW\\bin\\g++.exe",
        "args": [
            "-fdiagnostics-color=always",
            "-std=c++20",
            "-ggdb",
            "-lpthread",
            "-Wall",
            "-Wextra",
            "-O2",
            "-pipe",
            "-pedantic",
            "-Wundef",
            "-Wshadow",
            "-W",
            "-Wwrite-strings",
            "-Wcast-align",
            "-Wstrict-overflow=5",
            "-Wconversion",
            "-Wpointer-arith",
            "-Wformat=2",
            "-Wsign-compare",
            "-Wendif-labels",
            "-Wredundant-decls",
            "-Winit-self",
            "${file}",
            "-o",
            "${fileDirname}/${fileBasenameNoExtension}"
        ],
        "options": {
            "cwd": "C:\\MingW\\bin"
        },
        "problemMatcher": [
            "$gcc"
        ],
        "group": {
            "kind": "build",
            "isDefault": true
        },
        "detail": "compiler: C:\\MingW\\bin\\g++.exe"
    }
]
}
```

To overwrite some files with the `0vershred.bat` script, copy the name of the destination folder or once the script is started you can provide the desired folder, but you will have to use `Double Quotes` if the folder has spaces in it's name, after that right click it in the opened CMD window and press enter.

### To compile the main.cpp press **CTRL** + **SHIFT** + **B** , then from the same Desktop folder start the `0vershred.bat` script. Now you can delete the "main.exe" file

Optioanlly if you want to play around with the code from VSCode's console -- wait until it compiles, after that press **CTRL** + **SHIFT** + **\`** and paste this `cp -r C:\Users\YOUR_USERNAME_GOES_HERE\Desktop\main.exe C:\MingW\bin;cd C:\MingW\bin;.\main.exe C:\`

Commit message:

add option to use NUM of iterations to overwrite the content of given file

README.md, after:

# 0vershred  [![C/C++ CI](https://github.com/su8/0vershred/actions/workflows/c-cpp.yml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/su8/0vershred/actions/workflows/c-cpp.yml)  [![flawfinder](https://github.com/su8/0vershred/actions/workflows/flawfinder.yml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/su8/0vershred/actions/workflows/flawfinder.yml)
The 0vershred command is used to securely delete files by overwriting their contents multiple times, making it difficult for even advanced recovery tools to retrieve the original data. This command is particularly useful for erasing sensitive information. (copied from the `shred` man page, all credits to this information belong to `shred`).

`0vershred` is faster than `shred` when shredding 1GB testing file:

```bash
truncate -s 1G test.bin
time shred --iterations=2 test.bin
######
real 1m53.908s
user 0m0.986s
sys 0m15.761s

truncate -s 1G test2.bin
time 0vershred test2.bin
#####
real 0m13.371s
user 0m0.437s
sys 0m12.761s
```

---

## Program options

`-i` `NUM` of iterations to perform, by default they are 1.

---

If on **Linux/\*BSD/Mac** compile with:

```bash
make -j8 # 8 cores/threads to use in parallel compile
sudo/doas make install

# to uninstall it
sudo/doas make uninstall
```

---

## Windows users

Tested with [Visual Studio Code Editor](https://code.visualstudio.com/download), but you need to install [MingW](https://github.com/niXman/mingw-builds-binaries/releases/download/12.2.0-rt_v10-rev0/x86_64-12.2.0-release-posix-seh-rt_v10-rev0.7z), once downloaded extract it to **C:\MingW**, then re-open [Visual Studio Code Editor](https://code.visualstudio.com/download), you might want to install C\C++ extensions if you plan to write C\C++ code with the editor. If you plan to contribute to this project go to **File->Preferences->Settings** and type to search for **cppStandard** and set it to c17 to both C++ and C.

I use **One Monokai** theme for the [VScode Editor](https://code.visualstudio.com/download)

In [Visual Studio Code Editor](https://code.visualstudio.com/download), go to **Terminal->Configure Tasks...->Create tasks.json from template** and copy and paste this into it:

```json
{
  "version": "2.0.0",
  "tasks": [
    {
        "type": "cppbuild",
        "label": "C/C++",
        "command": "C:\\MingW\\bin\\g++.exe",
        "args": [
            "-fdiagnostics-color=always",
            "-std=c++20",
            "-ggdb",
            "-lpthread",
            "-Wall",
            "-Wextra",
            "-O2",
            "-pipe",
            "-pedantic",
            "-Wundef",
            "-Wshadow",
            "-W",
            "-Wwrite-strings",
            "-Wcast-align",
            "-Wstrict-overflow=5",
            "-Wconversion",
            "-Wpointer-arith",
            "-Wformat=2",
            "-Wsign-compare",
            "-Wendif-labels",
            "-Wredundant-decls",
            "-Winit-self",
            "${file}",
            "-o",
            "${fileDirname}/${fileBasenameNoExtension}"
        ],
        "options": {
            "cwd": "C:\\MingW\\bin"
        },
        "problemMatcher": [
            "$gcc"
        ],
        "group": {
            "kind": "build",
            "isDefault": true
        },
        "detail": "compiler: C:\\MingW\\bin\\g++.exe"
    }
]
}
```

To overwrite some files with the `0vershred.bat` script, copy the name of the destination folder or once the script is started you can provide the desired folder, but you will have to use `Double Quotes` if the folder has spaces in it's name, after that right click it in the opened CMD window and press enter.

### To compile the main.cpp press **CTRL** + **SHIFT** + **B** , then from the same Desktop folder start the `0vershred.bat` script. Now you can delete the "main.exe" file

Optioanlly if you want to play around with the code from VSCode's console -- wait until it compiles, after that press **CTRL** + **SHIFT** + **\`** and paste this `cp -r C:\Users\YOUR_USERNAME_GOES_HERE\Desktop\main.exe C:\MingW\bin;cd C:\MingW\bin;.\main.exe C:\`
